This file describes how to use Zipkin with a SQL database, assuming you've
already downloaded Zipkin.

## One-time database setup

We use the
[Anorm library](http://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.1.1/ScalaAnorm) to
support SQL databases. Anorm supports any SQL database; Zipkin includes
out-of-the-box support for SQLite, H2, MySQL, and PostgreSQL, and adding support
for additional databases is as easy as tracking down the right database driver
dependencies.

### Connecting to a database

By default, Zipkin is configured to use a persistent SQLite database. SQLite
does not require any additional setup and the database will be created
on-demand.

To use a different database, you need to change the collector and query
configurations. The configurations are located at
`zipkin-collector-service/config/collector-dev.scala` and
`zipkin-query-service/config/query-dev.scala`, respectively. They both
instantiate a `DB`, which looks something like this:

    val db = new DB()

You need to pass in parameters to `DB()` that match your database
configuration. For example, to run Zipkin on a MySQL database named
*production*, you might write something like this:

    val db = new DB(new DBConfig("mysql", new DBParams("production", "127.0.0.1")))

The connection parameters you can specify are defined in
[`DBConfig.scala`](https://github.com/twitter/zipkin/blob/master/zipkin-anormdb/src/main/scala/com/twitter/zipkin/util/DBConfig.scala)
in the Anorm module.

Additionally, you need to make sure Zipkin loads the correct database driver.
To do this, find the line in `project/Project.scala` that looks like this:

    anormDriverDependencies("sqlite-persistent")

Change "sqlite-persistent" to the name of the database you want to use (valid
names are specified in the definition of `anormDriverDependencies` near the top
of the file).

Note that although Zipkin technically supports in-memory SQL databases, they
can only be used effectively in the tests for now. This is because in-memory
databases disappear once their connection is closed, and the collector and
query daemons open different connections. However, we would like to combine
all three daemons (including the web one) into a single thread that could share
one connection.

### Setting up the schema

With the default configuration, the Zipkin collector automatically sets up the
schema if necessary. It does not add any indexes. If you are going to use
Zipkin with a SQL database in production, you may want to add indexes manually.

Zipkin knows to set up the schema through the `install` flag of a `DBConfig`
instance that is passed to the `DB` class. Once the schema has been set up, you
can turn off the flag, though the effect of keeping it on is just a slightly
slower startup.

You can also manually install the schema by running the `install()` method of
a `DB` instance.

### Adding a new database type

There are two places Zipkin needs to know about new SQL database types: in
`DBConfig.scala` in the `zipkin-anormdb` module and in `project/Project.scala`.
In the DBConfig class, the `private val dbmap` holds a map of database types
and how to connect to them, and in the Project file the
`val anormDriverDependencies` holds driver dependency information. Once the
relevant information for your database type is added in both places, you can
continue with the connection and schema setup processes described above.

## Usage

Zipkin uses the Anorm configuration by default, so you can run Zipkin with a
SQL database like normal:

    bin/collector
    bin/query
    bin/web
